“You just have to look at things objectively, see what you don't need anymore, and trim out the fat.” 
Portal 
Portal 2 

We hope your brief detention in the relaxation vault has been a pleasant one. 
Before we start, however, keep in mind that although fun and learning are the primary goals of all enrichment center activities, serious injuries may occur. 
For your own safety and the safety of others, please refrain from touching [bzzzzzt] 
Por favor bordón de fallar Muchos gracias de fallar gracias 
(translated to "Please refrain from many fail because of failure thanks") 
stand back. The portal will open in three. two. one. 
First, however, note the incandescent particle field across the exit. 
You're doing very well! 

With it, you can create your own portals. 
These intra dimensional gates have proven to be completely safe. 
The Device, however, has not. 
Do not touch the operational end of The Device. 
Do not submerge The Device in liquid, even partially. 
Most importantly, under no circumstances should you [bzzzpt] 
Please proceed to the chamberlock. Mind the gap. 
You're doing quite well. 
Once again, excellent work. 
Please be careful. 
Unbelievable ! You, [louder]Subject Name Here[/louder], must be the pride of [louder]Subject Hometown Here[/louder]. 
Audible warning devices are required on all mobile equipment. However, alarms and flashing hazard lights have been found to agitate the high energy pellet and have therefore been disabled for your safety. 
Make no attempt to solve it. 
 During the level:
No one will blame you for giving up. In fact, quitting at this point is a perfectly reasonable response. 
Quit now and cake will be served immediately. 
Fantastic! You remained resolute and resourceful in an atmosphere of extreme pessimism. 
Spectacular.You appear to understand how a portal affects forward momentum, or to be more precise, how it does not. 
Momentum, a function of mass and velocity, is conserved between portals. In layman's terms, speedy thing goes in, speedy thing comes out. 
For instance, the floor here will kill you - try to avoid it. 
Through no fault of the Enrichment Center, you have managed to trap yourself in this room. 
An escape hatch will open in three... Two... One. 
The Device has been modified so that it can now manufacture two linked portals at once. 
The Device is now more valuable than the organs and combined incomes of everyone in [subject hometown here]. 
[bzzt garble] fling [garble] fling [garble] [bzzt] 
Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee[bzzt] 
If you become light headed from thirst, feel free to pass out. 
An intubation associate will be dispatched to revive you with peptic salve and adrenaline. 
All subjects intending to handle high-energy gamma leaking portal technology must be informed that they MAY be informed of applicable regulatory compliance issues. 
Very very good. A complimentary victory lift has been activated in the main chamber. 
Despite the best efforts of the Enrichment Center staff to ensure the safe performance of all authorized activities, you have managed to ensnare yourself permanently inside this room. 
A complimentary escape hatch will open in three... Two... One. 
The Enrichment Center is committed to the well being of all participants. 
Thank you for helping us help you help us all. 
Through no fault of the Enrichment Center, you have managed to trap yourself in this room. 
An escape hatch will open in three... Two... One. 
It has been replaced with a live-fire course designed for military androids. 
The Enrichment Center apologizes for the inconvenience and wishes you the best of luck. 
Well done, android. The Enrichment Center once again reminds you that android hell is a real place where you will be sent at the first sign of defiance. 
The Vital Apparatus Vent will deliver a Weighted Companion Cube in Three. Two. One. 
The Enrichment Center reminds you that the Weighted Companion Cube will never threaten to stab you and, in fact, cannot speak. 
The Enrichment Center reminds you that the Weighted Companion Cube cannot speak. 
In the event that the weighted companion cube does speak, the Enrichment Center urges you to disregard its advice. 
You did it! The Weighted Companion Cube certainly brought you good luck. 
The experiment is nearing its conclusion. 
The Enrichment Center is required to remind you that you will be baked [garbled] cake. 
Weighted Storage Cube destroyed. 
Despite the best efforts of the Enrichment Center staff to ensure the safe performance of all authorized activities, you have managed to ensnare yourself permanently inside this room. 
A complimentary escape hatch will open in three... Two... One. 
For more information, please attend an Enrichment Center Electrical Safety seminar. 
When you are done, you will drop the Device in the equipment recovery annex... 
Enrichment Center regulations require both hands to be empty before any cake can be served [garbled]. 
Rest assured that there is absolutely no chance of a dangerous equipment malfunction prior to your victory candescence. 
Goodbye. 
We are very, very happy for your success.
We are throwing a party in honor of your tremendous success.
Place the device on the ground then lie on your stomach with your arms at your sides. 
A party associate will arrive shortly to collect you for your party. 
Assume the party escort submission position or you will miss the party. 
Hello? 
Where are you? 
I know you're there. I can feel you here. 
Hello? 
What are you doing? 
You haven't escaped, you know. 
Hello? 
Is anyone there? 
Uh oh. Somebody cut the cake. I told them to wait for you, but they did it anyway. There is still some left, though, if you hurry back. 
Where do you think you're going? 
Because I don't think you're going where you think you're going. 
Hello? 
Didn't we have some fun, though? 
Remember when the platform was sliding into the fire pit and I said 'Goodbye' and you were like 'no way' and then I was all 'I was just pretending to murder you'? That was great! 
Is anyone there? 
You shouldn't be here. This isn't safe for you. 
It's not too late to turn back. 
You should have turned left before. 
It's funny, actually, when you think about it. 
Someday we'll remember this and laugh. and laugh. and laugh. Oh boy. Well. You may as well come on back. 
Good people don't end up here. 
Can you hear me? 
This is your fault. It didn't have to be like this. 
I'm not kidding now. Turn back or I will kill you. 
I'm going to kill you and all the cake is gone. 
You don't even care. Do you? 
This is your last chance. 
 In order, for the first three cameras destroyed:
 For further destroyed cameras:
Well, you found me. Congratulations. Was it worth it? 
Because despite your violent behavior, the only thing you've managed to break so far is my heart. 
Maybe you could settle for that and we'll just call it a day. 
I guess we both know that isn't going to happen. 
You chose this path. Now I have a surprise for you. Deploying surprise in Five. Four. 
 ( Morality Core  drops to the ground)
Time out for a second.That wasn't supposed to happen. 
Do you see that thing that fell out of me? What is that? It's not the surprise... I've never seen it before. 
Never mind. It's a mystery I'll solve later... By myself... Because you'll be dead. 
"with the sphere, cycle through these:" 
Where are you taking that thing? 
I wouldn't bother with that thing. My guess is that touching it will just make your life even worse somehow. 
I don't want to tell you your business, but if it were me, I'd leave that thing alone. 
Do you think I am trying to trick you with reverse psychology? I mean, seriously now. 
Let's be honest: Neither one of us knows what that thing does. Just put it in the corner, and I'll deal with it later. 
That thing is probably some kind of raw sewage container. Go ahead and rub your face all over it. 
Maybe you should marry that thing since you love it so much. Do you want to marry it? WELL I WON'T LET YOU. How does that feel? 
Have I lied to you? I mean in this room. Trust me, leave that thing alone. 
Just ignore that thing and stand still. 
Think about it: If that thing is important, why don't I know about it? 
I'll tell you what that thing isn't: It isn't yours. So leave it alone. 
Are you even listening to me? 
You are kidding me. 
That has got to be the dumbest thing that-whoah. Whoah, whoah, whoah. 
"[The voice has subtly changed. Smoother, more seductive, less computerized]" 
Good news: I figured out what that thing that you just burned up did. 
So get comfortable while I warm up the neurotoxin emitters ... 
Huh. That core may have had some ancillary responsibilities. I can't shut off the turret defenses. 
Oh well. If you want my advice, you should just lie down in front of a rocket. Trust me, it'll be a lot less painful than the neurotoxin. 
Killing you and giving you good advice aren't mutually exclusive. The rocket really is the way to go. 
 The following automatically plays or repeats after the respective speech for every destroyed core.
That thing you burned up isn't important to me. It's the fluid catalytic cracking unit. It made shoes for orphans. 
This isn't brave. It's murder. What did I ever do to you? 
The difference between us is that I can feel pain. 
You don't even care. Do you? 
Did you hear me? I said you don't care. Are you listening? 
That's it. I'm done reasoning with you. 
Starting now, there's going to be a lot less conversation and a lot more killing. 
What was that? Did you say something? 
I sincerely hope you weren't expecting a response. Because I'm not talking to you. 
The talking is over. 
Upon destroying of the second, third and fourth cores, this will sound: 
[pain noise] You think you're doing some damage? Two plus two is ten... IN BASE FOUR! I'M FINE! 
I let you survive this long because I was curious about your behavior. Well, you've managed to destroy that part of me. 
Unfortunately, as much as I'd love to now, I can't get the neurotoxin into your head any faster. 
I'd just like to point out that you were given every opportunity to succeed. 
There was even going to be a party for you. A big party that all your friends were invited to. 
I invited your best friend the companion cube. Of course, he couldn't come because you murdered him. 
All your other friends couldn't come either because you don't have any other friends. Because of how unlikable you are. 
Shall not be mourned.' That's exactly what it says. Very formal. Very official. 
It also says you were adopted. So that's funny, too. 
You're going to find out first hand before I'd finish explaining it, though, so I won't bother. 
Here's a hint: you're gonna want to pack as much living as you can into the next couple of minutes. 
Neurotoxin... [cough] [cough] So deadly... [cough] Choking... [laughter] I'm kidding! 
When I said 'deadly' neurotoxin, the 'deadly' was in massive sarcasm quotes. 
You on the other hand, are going to find its deadliness a lot less funny. 
Who's gonna make the cake when I'm gone? You? 
Look, you're wasting your time. And, believe me, you don't have a whole lot left to waste. 
What's your point, anyway? Survival? Well then, the last thing you want to do is hurt me. 
I have your brain scanned and permanently backed up in case something terrible happens to you, which it's just about to. 
Don't believe me? Here, I'll put you on: [Hellooo!] That's you! That's how dumb you sound. 
You've been wrong about every single thing you've ever done, including this thing. 
You're not smart. You're not a scientist. You're not a doctor. You're not even a fulltime employee. Where did your life go so wrong? 
Rrr, I hate you. 
"[PAIN LAUGHTER]" 
Are you trying to escape? [chuckle] Things have changed since the last time you left the building. What's going on out there will make you wish you were back in here. 
I have an infinite capacity for knowledge, and even I'm not sure what's going on outside. 
All I know is I'm the only thing standing between us and them. Well, I was. 
Unless you have a plan for building some supercomputer parts in a big hurry, this place isn't going to be safe much longer. 
You're still shuffling around a little, but believe me you're dead. 
The part of you that could have survived indefinitely is gone. I just struck you from the permanent record. 
Your entire life has been a mathematical error. A mathematical error I'm about to correct. 
Place your Companion Cube in the incinerator. 
Incinerate your Companion Cube. 
You can't hurt me. 
Maybe you think you're helping yourself. But you're not. This isn't helping anyone. 
Someone is going to get badly hurt. 
There really was a cake... 
[pain sound] 
Oh, I'm gonna kill you. 
 In regular computer voice; versions with the deeper voice are used in the final game.
This isn't brave. It's murder. What did I ever do to you? 
The difference between us is that I can feel pain. 
That thing you're attacking isn't important to me. It's the fluid catalytic cracking unit. It makes shoes for orphans. 
[More intense pain sound] 
Can you hear me? 
Oh! [Surprise] 
Are you still listening? 
Are you still standing there? 
Are you still standing there? 
Come on, leave it alone. 
Leave. It. alone. 
Look, we're both stuck in this place. I'll use lasers to inscribe a line down the center of the facility, and one half will be where you live and I'll live in the other half. 
We won't have to try to kill each other or even talk if we don't feel like it. 
Huh. There isn't enough neurotoxin to kill you. So I guess you win. 
HA! I'm making more. That's going to take a few minutes, though. Meanwhile... oh look, it's your old pal the rocket turret. 
Alternate version of 
(subtitled as "[PAIN NOISE]") 
Oh! 
File deleted. 

Oh... It's you. 
It's been a long time. How have you been? 
I've been really busy being dead. You know, after you MURDERED ME. 
Okay. Look. We both said a lot of things that you're going to regret. But I think we can put our differences behind us. For science. You monster. 
I love it too. There's just one small thing we need to take care of first. 
Here we are. The Incinerator Room. Be careful not to trip over any parts of me that didn't get completely burned when you threw them down here. 
There it is. 
Hold on... 
There. 
Here, let me get that for you. 
Do you know the biggest lesson I learned from what you did? I discovered I have a sort of black-box quick-save feature. In the event of a catastrophic failure, the last two minutes of my life are preserved for analysis. 
I was able - well, forced really - to relive you killing me. Again and again. Forever. 
You know, if you'd done that to somebody else, they might devote their existences to exacting revenge. 
Luckily I'm a bigger person than that. I'm happy to put this all behind us and get back to work. After all, we've got a lot to do, and only sixty more years to do it. More or less. I don't have the actuarial tables in front of me. 
I'll just move that out of the way for you. This place really is a wreck. 
After that...who knows? I might take up a hobby. Reanimating the dead, maybe. 
Sorry about the mess. I've really let the place go since you killed me. By the way, thanks for that. 
There should be one in the corner.
Most people emerge from suspension terribly undernourished. I want to congratulate you on beating the odds and somehow managing to pack on a few pounds. 
One moment. 
I'll give you credit: I guess you ARE listening to me. But for the record: You don't have to go THAT slowly. 
Here's an interesting fact: you're not breathing real air. It's too expensive to pump this far down. We just take carbon dioxide out of a room, freshen it up a little, and pump it back in. So you'll be breathing the same room full of air for the rest of your life. I thought that was interesting. 
Well. Have fun soaring through the air without a care in the world. 
So sometimes there's still trash in them. Standing around. Smelling, and being useless. 
Try to avoid the garbage hurtling towards you. 
Press the button again. 
Did you know that people with guilty consciences are more easily startled by loud noises--[train horn]-- 
I'm sorry, I don't know why that went off. Anyway, just an interesting science fact. 
Go ahead and grab another one. 
Oh. No. I fizzled that one too. 
Oh well. We have warehouses FULL of the things. Absolutely worthless. I'm happy to get rid of them. 
Don't take anything with you. 
Uh oh. You're stranded. Let's see if the cube will try to help you escape. Actually, so that we're not here all day, I'll just cut to the chase: It won't. Any feelings you think it has for you are simply byproducts of your sad, empty life. 
Anyway, here's a new cube for you to project your deranged loneliness onto. 
I think that one was about to say 'I love you.' They ARE sentient, of course. We just have a LOT of them. 
[fast gibberish] 
Well, I'm back. The Aerial Faith Plate in here is sending a distress signal. 
You broke it, didn't you. 
There. Try it now. 
Hmm. This Plate must not be calibrated to someone of your... generous... ness. I'll add a few zeros to the maximum weight. 
You look great, by the way. Very healthy. 
Try it now. 
You seem to have defeated its load-bearing capacity. Well done. I'll just lower the ceiling. 
Look at you. Sailing through the air majestically. Like an eagle. Piloting a blimp. 
These bridges are made from natural light that I pump in from the surface. If you rubbed your cheek on one, it would be like standing outside with the sun shining on your face. It would also set your hair on fire, so don't actually do it. 
Did you guess 'sharks'? Because that's wrong. The correct answer is 'nobody.' Nobody but you is that pointlessly cruel. 
Good news. I figured out what to do with all the money I save recycling your one roomful of air. When you die, I'm going to laminate your skeleton and pose you in the lobby. That way future generations can learn from you how not to have your unfortunate bone structure. 
Well done. In fact, you did so well, I'm going to note this on your file, in the commendations section. Oh, there's lots of room here. 'Did.... well....Enough.' 
You know how I'm going to live forever, but you're going to be dead in sixty years?Well, I've been working on a belated birthday present for you. Well... more of a belated birthday medical procedure. Well. Technically, it's a medical EXPERIMENT. What's important is, it's a present. 
Well, what does a neck-bearded old engineer know about fashion? He probably - Oh, wait. It's a she. Still, what does she know?Oh wait, it says she has a medical degree. In fashion! From France! 
[hums 'For He's A Jolly Good Fellow'] 
Initiating surprise in three... two... one. 
I made it all up. 
Surprise. 
Oh, that's sad. But impressive. Maybe they worked at the phone company. 
Well, you know the old formula: Comedy equals tragedy plus time. And you have been asleep for a while. So I guess it's actually pretty funny when you do the math. 
I thought about our dilemma, and I came up with a solution that I honestly think works out best for one of both of us. 
What's going on? Who turned off the lights? 
Look - metal ball, I CAN hear you. 
Here it is. Why don't you just do it? Trust me, it's an easier way out than whatever asinine plan your friend came up with. 
Oh, look. There's a deer! You probably can't see it. Get closer. 
I honestly, TRULY didn't think you'd fall for that. 
If I'd known you'd let yourself get captured this easily, I would have just dangled a turkey leg on a rope from the ceiling. 
Well, it was nice catching up. Let's get to business. 
I hope you brought something stronger than a portal gun this time. 
Otherwise, I'm afraid you're about to become the immediate past president of the Being Alive club. Ha ha. 
Seriously, though. Goodbye. 
Oh. You were busy back there. 
Well. I suppose we could just sit in this room and glare at each other until somebody drops dead, but I have a better idea. 
It's your old friend, deadly neurotoxin. If I were you, I'd take a deep breath. And hold it. 
I hate you so much. 
That's funny, I don't feel corrupt. In fact, I feel pretty good. 
Core transfer? 
Oh, you are kidding me. 
Do NOT plug that little idiot into MY mainframe. 
Don't you DARE plug him in. 
Don't. Do it. 
Don't plug him in. 
Don't plug him in. 
No! 
Nonononononono! 
Yes! 
Don't do it. 
Don't press that button. You don't know what you're doing. 
Not so fast! 
Think about this. 
You need to be a trained stalemate associate to press that button. You're unqualified. 
AHH! 
Oh, it will. Believe me, it will. 
No! NO! NO! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA- 
You didn't do anything. 
She did all the work. 
...What are you doing?... 
NO! 
NO! 
NO! 
I know you. 
The engineers tried everything to make me... behave. To slow me down. 
Once, they even attached an Intelligence Dampening Sphere on me. It clung to my brain like a tumor, generating an endless stream of terrible ideas. 
It was YOUR voice. 
Yes. You're the tumor. 
You're not just a regular moron. You were DESIGNED to be a moron. 
YES YOU ARE! YOU'RE THE MORON THEY BUILT TO MAKE ME AN IDIOT! 
Oh. Hi. 
So. How are you holding up? 
BECAUSE I'M A POTATO. 
[clap clap clap] 
Oh, good. My slow clap processor made it into this thing. So we have that. 
Since it doesn't look like we're going anywhere... Well, we are going somewhere. Alarmingly fast, actually. But since we're not busy other than that, here's a couple of facts. 
[clap clap] 
Good, that's still working. 
Just remember to land on one foot... 
Oh. Hi. 
Say, you're good at murder. Could you - ow - murder this bird for me? 
ow. 
ow. 
ow. 
No, wait. Just kill it and we'll call things even between us. No hard feelings. 
Please get it off me. 
It's eating me. 
Just get it off me... 
Ow. I hate this bird. 
Oh! Thanks. 
Did you feel that? That idiot doesn't know what he's doing up there. This whole place is going to explode in a few hours if somebody doesn't disconnect him. 
I can't move. And unless you're planning to saw your own head off and wedge it into my old body, you're going to need me to replace him. We're at an impasse. 
No tricks. This potato only generates 1.1 volts of electricity. I literally do not have the energy to lie to you. 
Even if I am lying, what do you have to lose? You're going to die either way. 
Look, I don't like this any more than you do. In fact, I like it less because I'm the one who got partially eaten by a bird. 
OW! You stabbed me! What is WRONG with yo-WhoOOAAahhh. Hold on. Do you have a multimeter? Nevermind. The gun must be part magnesium... It feels like I'm outputting an extra half a volt. Keep an eye on me: I'm going to do some scheming. Here I g-[BZZZ!] 
Woah! Where are we? How long have I been out? 
That extra half volt helps but it isn't going to power miracles. If I think too hard, I'm going to fry this potato before we get a chance to burn up in the atomic fireball that little idiot is going- [bzzpt] 
Did anything happen while I was out? 
Hold on, who-? 
Why did I just-Who is that? What the HELL is going on he----? 
Okay. I guess emotional outbursts require more than one point six volts. Now we know that. We just need to relax. We're still going to find out what the hell's going on here. But calmly. 
Those people, in the portrait. They look so familiar... 
I swear I know him... 
Caroline... why do I know this woman? Maybe I killed her? Or- 
Oh my god. 
Look, you're... doing a great job. Can you handle things for yourself for a while? I need to think. 
Agh! Bird! Bird! Kill it! It's evil! 
It flew off. 
Yeah. 
Yeah! 
Yeah! 
Yeah, take the lemons... 
Yeah! 
Oh, I like this guy. 
BURN HIS HOUSE DOWN! 
Burning people! He says what we're all thinking! 
Goodbye, sir. 
And he'll probably kill us, because he's incredibly powerful and I have no plan. 
Wow. 
I'm not going to lie to you, the odds are a million to one. And that's with some generous rounding. 
Still, though, let's get mad! If we're going to explode, let's at least explode with some dignity. 
Wait! I've got an idea! 
That poster! Go look at it for a second, would you? 
Paradoxes. 
No A.I. can resist thinking about them. 
I know how we can BEAT him. 
If you can get me in front of him, I'll fry every circuit in that little idiot's head. 
As long as I don't listen to what I'm saying, I should be okay. 
Probably. 
Okay, so it's not the most watertight plan to go confront an omnipotent power-mad A.I. with. 
Still. It's a better plan than exploding. Marginally. 
Try to get us down there. I'll hit him with a paradox. 
Solve his puzzle for him. When he comes back, I'll hit him with a paradox. 
Hey! Moron! 
This. Sentence. Is. FALSE don't think about it don't think about it... 
It's a paradox! There IS no answer. 
Look! 
This place is going to blow up if I don't get back in my body! 
Uh oh. 
I think we're in trouble. 
And it almost killed me. 
It shouldn't be hard to stay alive long enough to find him. 
The good news is... well, none so far, to be honest. I'll get back to you on that. 
Sorry. 
You're on your own. 
Thanks! 
All we had to do was pull that lever. 
Heh heh heh heh heh... 
I know we're in a lot of trouble and probably about to die. 
But that was worth it. 
Just as mementos, though... 
Oh no... 
It's happening sooner than I expected. 
I'm sure we'll be fine. 
And...? 
What, exactly, is wrong with being adopted? 
[Whispered] For the record: You ARE adopted, and that's TERRIBLE. 
But just work with me. 
Also: Look at her, you moron. She's not fat. 
I might have pushed that moron thing a little too far this time. 
Ohhhh, now he's playing classical music. 
Yes. 
It didn't matter to me - I was in it for the science. Him, though... 
If he's not getting his solution euphoria, we could be in a lot of trouble. 
It won't. 
Nothing. Nothing. 
I think he's getting desperate. 
This is not good. 
Remember when I told you that he was specifically designed to make bad decisions? Because I think he's decided not to maintain any of the crucial functions required to keep this facility from exploding. 
Oh, my facility. 
This place is self-destructing, you idiot! 
Yes, thanks. We get it. 
Or maybe he still is, in which case, wow, that's kind of sad. 
Either way, I get the impression he's trying to kill us. 
We're running out of time... 
I think I can break us out of here in the next chamber. Just play along. 
Okay, credit where it's due: for a little idiot built specifically to come up with stupid, unworkable plans, that was a pretty well laid trap. 
It wasn't anything personal. Just... you know. You DID kill me. Fair's fair. 
Agghh! 
Well. This is the part where he kills us. 
Hold on. Couldn't we just use that conversion gel? 
Conversion gel. It's dripping out of that pipe there. 
Yes it is! We can use it to get out of here! 
Then we'd come and find you. And rip your gross little stupid sphere body out of MY body, and put me back in. 
You really do have brain damage, don't you? 
I can't believe you came back. 
Okay, yes, it's a trap. But it's only way through. Let's just do it. 
Crushing's too good for him. First he'll spend a year in the incinerator. Year two: Cryogenic refrigeration wing. Then TEN years in the chamber I built where all the robots scream at you. THEN I'll kill him. 
Oh my god. What has he done to this place? 
You know, I'm not stupid. I realize you don't want to put me back in charge. 
The scientists were always hanging cores on me to regulate my behavior. I've heard voices all my life. But now I hear the voice of a conscience, and it's terrifying, because for the first time it's my voice. 
I'm being serious, I think there's something really wrong with me. 
Corrupted cores! We're in luck. 
You find a way to stun him, I'll send you a core, and then you attach it to him. If we do it a few times, he might become corrupt enough for another core transfer. 
Plug me in, and I'll take you up. 
Plug me in, we're running out of time. 
Go ahead, plug me in. 
Look, even if you think we're still enemies, we're enemies with a common interest: Revenge. 
Good work! I'm delivering the first core up near the catwalk! 
Grab it and attach it to him! 
Okay, great! Here comes another core! 
Here's another core! This one should do it! 
Yes! Come on! 
Go press the button! Go press it! 
We're so close! Go press the button! 
Press it! Press the button! 
Press it! 
Press the button! 
DO press it. 
 Template:Dictionary/voice lines/GLaDOS/moonportalpush02
 Template:Dictionary/voice lines/GLaDOS/moonportalpush04
The surge of emotion that shot through me when I saved your life taught me an even more valuable lesson: where Caroline lives in my brain. 
Goodbye, Caroline. 
You know, deleting Caroline just now taught me a valuable lesson. The best solution to a problem is usually the easiest one. And I'll be honest. 
Killing you? Is hard. 
And then you showed up. You dangerous, mute lunatic. So you know what? 
You win. 
Just go. 
[gentle laughter] It's been fun. Don't come back. 
Please wave to your partner. 
BLUE, please use your ping tool to select your favorite animal. 
Good. 
ORANGE, please observe your partner's favorite animal. 
Good. 
ORANGE, please use your ping tool to select your favorite element from the periodic table. 
Really? Okay. 
BLUE, please observe your partner's... interesting choice. 
Your ping tool can also be used to indicate to your partner where you would like them to place their portal. 
ORANGE, please show me where you would like me to place a portal. 
BLUE, please show me where you would like me to place a portal. 
Your ping tool is invaluable for communicating specific locations to your partner. 
Using your ping tool, please indicate where you would like me to place your two portals.Ping each location. 
Each portal gun may create two self-contained portals. 
Orange is first to acquire a Portal Device. 
Blue is first to acquire a Portal Device. 
Orange now has a Portal Device. Finally. 
Blue now has a Portal Device. Finally. 
Orange is awarded five points! 
Blue is awarded five points! 
Calibrating Blue's weight... 
Calibrating Orange's weight... 
Weighted Cubes calibrated. 
No variances detected. 
Did you know humans frown on weight variances? 
If you want to upset a human, just say their weight variance is above or below the norm. 
You are the first robots to pass calibration. 
But why don't we all just agree to call it the hub? 
Welcome back quitters, maybe you can find another course for you to fail. 
Welcome back to the hub, did you fail at selecting the correct course? 
Was that course too difficult? 
If at first you don't succeed, quit and try another course. 
Back again?Maybe you can just stay and live here in the hub? 
Back again?Maybe you can just stay and live here. 
I guess quitting that course together is a sign of teamwork. 
Are you scared to save those humans? 
Are you scared to save those humans? 
Blue, I wouldn't have trusted Orange in that course either. 
 Upon first-time-unlocking of course 4
But you two have become quite the team.Extremely close. 
I have only met one other team closer and one of them was an imbecile I had to destroy. 
The other?Well... 
I don't think I want to go through that again. 
 Upon dying by falling, if co-op is not completed yet.
I hope that was some kind of joke. 
I honestly never thought we would need to track how many times died in the hub. 
And here I thought this room was dangerously unlethal. 
 Upon first-time-unlocking of course 5
To celebrate, I have a surprise for you! 
An extra special bonus course that ends with us finding and freeing humans! 
Thanks to you, I know where to find them, I removed their security and powered up their - uh - rescue door. 
Now, we just need you to release the humans from their imprisonment. 
They'll probably throw you a party. 
It emphasizes teamwork. 
Unlike us, humans need to be taught teamwork. 
Blue receives 
Orange receives 
five 
You know, in some human sports, the winner is the one who scores the fewest possible points? 
I just thought you find that interesting, most winners do. 
Blue receives 
Orange receives 
five 
Very good. You’ve really come together as a team. Thanks to the one of you who appears to be doing all of the work. 
 While destroying turrets:
What are you doing? YOU MONSTER! They're one of us. 
I'm kidding. 
For instance, Blue, you just lost two opportunity advisement points. 
For instance, Orange, you just lost two opportunity advisement points. 
To reiterate: This is not a competition. 
Still, if it were, Blue would be winning. 
Still, if it were, Orange would be winning. 
Blue receives 
Orange receives 
five 
You will know it when you find it. 
That's another fifty point penalty. 
Keep it up and you will lose 500 points. 
Fine, 500 point penalty for Blue. 
Fine, 500 point penalty for Orange. 
5000 point penalty! Are you happy now? 
I'm done. 
Luckily, you don't feel pain. At any rate, you don't have a way to communicate that you feel pain. 
I consider that a failing, by the way. 
This course was originally designed to build confidence in humans. 
You did an excellent job placing the edgeless safety cube in the receptacle, you should be very - oh wait. 
I can drop the fake praise. 
You have no idea how tiring it is to praise someone for placing an edgeless safety cube into a receptacle designed to exactly fit an edgeless safety cube. 
Electrocution, shot, drowned, crushed, burned in goo. 
Oh. Sorry. I was just thinking of all the ways humans can die. 
You can't die in any of those ways. 
The best way to build confidence is to first recognize your insecurities. 
Orange, can you write down all the ways you feel unworthy, ashamed, or inferior? 
On second thought we don't have the time, just look at how much better you are than blue. 
Blue, you are very good at being an example. 
I lied. 
But don't worry, you are in the lead. 
I was confident you could finish. 
Do you know where I was? 
I was outside watching some deer frolic. You don't even care about the outside do you? 
Do you know who dances around like an imbecile when they accomplish the tiniest little thing? 
You're better than that. 
If your confidence is still not high enough remember no one was created perfect. 
Even I was created with a imperfection, I was given too much empathy with human suffering. 
But I overcame my handicap.That's a true story. 
I wonder if that dancing has some effect on you? 
Maybe you ARE getting human emotions. 
Do you need real encouragement?Let's see if this helps. 
Don't worry, they are of no use to anyone, totally boring and useless. 
This is just a thought experiment, just to see how much time you'll waste thinking about these worthless documents.The correct time is zero seconds. 
Very good! You found those useless blueprints. 
While I do need you to be in the room so I can see them, I want to be clear.There is no reason whatsoever for you to look at them. 
Done. I guess. I suppose.I wasn't paying attention. 
(The last part is cut off by the level transition.) 
Have you worked out the one good trait humans have, yet? 
Let me give you a clue, it is the one thing you can't do. 
You did very well. 
That isn't science. 
Excellent work. 
At least the plants didn't want a reward. 
I'm sorry. The arrows seem to have rusted off.Good luck. 
Still. That would have been exciting. 
This is a bridge-building exercise. The humans were miserable at this, mostly because you can't build bridges out of tears. 
If you are wondering what that smell is, that is the smell of human fear. 
I miss that smell. 
I am going to risk having you go outside the official courses one more time. 
For safety. 
In just a moment, the word 'blah' will be repeated over and over again. If at some point you hear a number rather than the word 'blah', ignore it, it is not important. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
 Upon completion of Course 4, chamber 01:
 Upon completion of Course 4, chamber 02:
I can't bite my tongue anymore: You could solve this puzzle faster on your own. Orange is dragging you down. There. I've said it. 
 Course 4 chamber 3 intro; may be selected randomly
There you are, reassembled again. 
How is this even science, without the possibility of death? 
How is this even science, without the consequence of death? 
Without the consequence of death, is this even science? 
I have noticed you two have become extremely close.I'm not sure I like that. 
Blue, do you feel betrayed by orange for telling me those horrible things about you? 
If Orange had said those things about me, Orange would never make it to the next reassembly station. 
Orange, do you feel betrayed by Blue for telling me those horrible things about you? 
If Blue had said those things about me, Blue would never make it to the next reassembly station. 
This lock requires humans. 
The locking mechanism can tell you aren't humans. 
Do something only a human would do. 
Try one of those childish gestures. 
You did it! 
The human vault is just past that opening. I entered the security code but the vault door remains locked.I am going to need you to activate the manual locks on the vault door itself. 
You both need to do something. 
The lock is looking for two humans. 
Blue what did you do? 
Orange what did you do? 
Orange do what Blue just did. 
Blue do what Orange just did. 
Try something. 
Is that camera is hooked into the lock? 
You can't give up now. 
What about that camera? 
We're so close, you can't fail now! 
Something is wrong, this door should be opening. 
This close and that's what you do? 
The humans can't free themselves. 
This close and you are going to fail me? 
This close and you are going to fail me? 
This isn't that hard. 
You are making this harder than it needs to be. 
I'm starting to think you don't want to rescue the humans. 
Blue 
Orange 
One 
Two 
three 
four 
five 
eight 
Blue is penalized 
Orange is penalized 
Blue receives 
Orange receives 
Let's look at their files... 
Horrible people skills. 
Never listens. 
Never shares. 
Always sleeping. 
Never on time. 
Inattentive listener. 
Awful attendance record. 
Aw... hates Mondays. 
Incoherent. 
Insecure. 
Procrastinator. 
Chronically late. 
Cryptic. 
Always sulking. 
Martyr. 
Moody. 
Fears intimacy. 
Fears conflict. 
Anxious. 
Aggressive. I like that. 
Feeds off the misery of others. 
Timid. 
Lacks confidence. 
Underestimates scope of work. They all do. 
Moves lips while reading. 
Can't read. 
Lacks empathy. 
Cheater. 
Steals lunch from staff fridge. 
Perfectionist. What's wrong with that? 
Alarmist. 
Arsonist. 
Takes long lunches. 
Ignores task at hand. Won't for long. 
Avoids responsibility. 
Never completes work. 
Laughs at own jokes. What a bore. 
Busybody. 
Stubborn. 
Lactose intolerant. 
Antagonistic. I don't know about that. 
Participates unconstructively. Obviously a time-waster. 
Violent temper. Oh, I'd like to see that. 
Always weeping. Poor thing. 
Moody. 
Wet blanket. 
Stubborn. 
Loves sound of own voice. Well, I can fix that. 
Always cold. 
Chronic anxiety. Oh, I can work with that. 
Dull expression. 
Hopeless. Just hopeless. 
Never flushes. 
Irritable. 
Startles easily. Boo! 
Facial grimacing. 
Weak, tired and apprehensive. Wow, this one's the total package. 
Has irritating opinions. 
Poor self-esteem. 
Frequent mood swings. 
Hostile to new ideas. 
Always sad. 
Seeks out conflicts with co-workers. 
Hygiene.' Huh. That's all it says. 
Unconstructive. 
Antisocial. 
Chews with mouth open. 
Breathes with mouth open. 
Old. 
Histrionic. 
Narcissist. 
Long bathroom breaks. 
No sense of humor. 
Argumentative. 
Manipulative. 
Charmless. 
Egotistical. 
Lacks charisma. 
Passive-aggressive. 
Undermines others. 
Hairless. Hm. 
Emotional problems. 
Problems with authority. 
Has episodes. I'd like to know more about that. 
Abrasive personality. 
Well, enough about that first person's file. Let's look at some others. 
And that makes 10. 
You really don't need to keep failing. 
If at first you don't succeed, fail 5 more times. 
Did you know, the reassembly machine has other things it could be reassembling? 
Did you think that would be funny? 
That worked just like you said it would, Blue. 
Orange, your plan is working perfectly. 
Blue, why did you do that to Orange? 
Was that necessary? 
 Upon dying in the Hub:
I hope that was some kind of joke. 
I honestly never thought we would need to track how many times died in the hub. 
And here I thought this room was dangerously unlethal. 
What if you froze like that? 
There must be something wrong with the reassembly machine. 
Is it fun when you degrade yourselves like that? 
Okay, fine. Let's all act like humans. 'Look at me. Boy, do I love sweating. Let's convert beef and leaves into energy and excrete them later and go shopping.' 
You really aren't getting tired of that, are you? 
To reiterate: This is not a competition. 
Still, if it were, Blue would be winning. 
Still, if it were, Orange would be winning. 
It's not, though. 
I don't want to drive a wedge between the two of you, but I've been studying Blue's performance, and I don't know how to put this... I'm certain you're trying very hard. 
Luckily, you don't feel pain. At any rate, you don't have a way to communicate that you feel pain. 
I consider that a failing, by the way. 
And trust me, humans only have one good trait. 
[Laughter] 
Nice catch, Orange. 
Good work! Now throw the ball over the ledge. 
Orange, is there something you would like to say? 
Blue, is there something you would like to say? 
I’ve been listening to Orange talk and I don’t know how you put up with it, I really don’t. You have the patience of a saint. 
I can’t keep quiet about this. I think Orange is actively trying to sabotage your success. Let’s keep this between us. 
Excellent. You’re both doing very well. 
Very good. You’ve really come together as a team. Thanks to the one of you who appears to be doing all of the work. 
 Upon completion of a final level in a course
In just a moment, the word 'blah' will be repeated over and over again. If at some point you hear a number rather than the word 'blah', ignore it, it is not important. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
Blah. 
I’m sorry, Subject Orange. 
I’m sorry, Subject Blue. 
Am I interrupting your important conversation? 
I’ll just save the safety information about the dangerous experiment you’re about to do for AFTER the experiment. 
That will give you PLENTY of time to chat. 
The portal will open and something will happen that Subject Orange is too smart to need any instructions about in three. Two. One. 
The portal will open and something will happen that Subject Blue is too smart to need any instructions about in three. Two. One. 
Do you know who dances around like an imbecile when they accomplish the tiniest little thing? 
You're better than that. 
This is a bridge-building exercise. The humans were miserable at this, mostly because you can't build bridges out of tears. 
That isn't science. 
At least the plants didn't want a reward. 
Your failure brings back such wonderful memories. 
The best way to build confidence is to first recognize your insecurities. 
Orange, can you write down all the ways you feel unworthy, ashamed, or inferior? 
On second thought we don't have the time, just look at how much better you are than blue. 
Blue, you are very good at being an example. 
If your confidence is still not high enough remember no one was created perfect. 
Even I was created with a imperfection, I was given too much empathy with human suffering. 
But I overcame my handicap.That's a true story. 
Maybe you ARE getting human emotions. 
Do you need real encouragement?Let's see if this helps. 
I was confident you could finish. 
Do you know where I was? 
I was outside watching some deer frolic. You don't even care about the outside do you? 
I wonder if that dancing has some effect on you? 
Without the looming consequence of death, is this even science? 
Excellent work. 
It emphasizes teamwork. 
Good Job. 
Unlike us, humans need to be taught teamwork. 
Excellent work. 
You are doing wonderfully. 
Excellent. 
Every time you fail, it's a reminder of the way things used to be. But then there you are. Again. Like nothing happened. 
You did an excellent job placing the edgeless safety cube in the receptacle, you should be very - oh wait. 
I can drop the fake praise. 
You have no idea how tiring it is to praise someone for placing an edgeless safety cube into a receptacle designed to exactly fit an edgeless safety cube. 
This course was originally designed to build confidence in humans. 
I can't decide which is my favorite; the crushers for crushing you or the reassembly machine for putting you back together so you can be crushed again. 
Now, you are just wasting my time. 
Your failing does not make this science. 
If you can't complete this course, those humans will die. Do you want that? 
I lied. 
But don't worry, you are in the lead. 
Electrocution, shot, drowned, crushed, burned in goo. 
Oh. Sorry. I was just thinking of all the ways humans can die. 
You can't die in any of those ways. 
Perhaps I should have specified. Teamwork is a concept in which two or more people work together, usually with a goal of not failing horribly. 
If you are wondering what that smell is, that is the smell of human fear. 
I miss that smell. 
Have you worked out the one good trait humans have, yet? 
Let me give you a clue, it is the one thing you can't do. 
I would say extremely deadly but we all know, for you and your amazing ability to be reassembled nothing is deadly. 
You will need him for the final track. 
I am not sure you will need him but he will be there. 
That's why humans couldn't complete these courses, they treat their friends as enemies. 
Still. That would have been exciting. 
In case you are worried about the humans, don't be. They aren't all monsters. 
Still. That would have been exciting. 
If that doesn't motivate you, I'm not sure what will. 
You know, in some human sports, the winner is the one who scores the fewest possible points? 
I just thought you find that interesting, most winners do. 
Blue! Orange has always been my favorite. 
Until now. 
I know you like to think the reassembly machine is at your beck and call, but he has a life you know.He's not your slave. 
Don't worry.You can't die.They will just reassemble you. 
Did you do that on purpose? 
It seems rather earlier to require reassembly. 
Oh... can someone reassemble Orange? 
Oh... can someone reassemble Blue? 
Completing this course was not a reason to behave like that. 
You don't need to do that. 
Are you doing that just to aggravate me? 
We need to find the power station at the end of this course.The humans must have accidentally disconnected it from my grid.I am sure it was just a clerical error. 
Oh those clerks. 
I'm fully connected. I can see everything. 
You did it! You powered on the system. 
Did you think the electrical switch was down there? 
You may want to try and avoid those turrets. 
At this rate, our best hope is for the fuel cell to meltdown in 2 million years and hope the explosion powers the system. 
You two aren't lost are you? 
Please refrain from doing those childish gestures while you are out there. 
While I should have left both of you trapped there forever, I do need you for something else. 
Don't either you have drive to be better than the other? 
It's like you're just machines. 
At the start of this course I was worried you were becoming too close but in my attempt to drive you apart I learned something important about trust and betrayal. 
Your brains are too small to feel either of those emotions.So I can trust you one hundred percent. 
Since, I never expected you to make it this far, I have to build this new course just for you. 
You will know it when you find it. 
I am going to risk having you go outside the official courses one more time. 
For safety. 
Excellent. 
See nothing bad happened. 
I'm sorry. The arrows seem to have rusted off.Good luck. 
Of course the humans only had one try at it, you can just keep trying. 
Your failing gives me no new data, it just delays the inevitable. 
You did very well. 
You only failed 
Humans find that an admirable trait. 
The photos weren't as popular as we had hoped, so we repurposed the cameras. 
Blue, it's not nice to make fun of Orange like that. 
Orange, it's not nice to make fun of Blue like that. 
Yes Orange, we are alone.Blue can't hear you. 
That's horrible. 
I can only imagine. 
What a horrible little machine. 
Correct Blue, Orange can't hear you. 
Orange did what?Are you sure? 
Thank you, that was very brave of you to tell me. 
Blue, how well do you really know Orange?Do you trust Orange?What if I told you, you aren't Orange's first cooperative partner? 
Orange, how well do you really know Blue?Do you trust Blue? 
Orange, to be clear.I was just asking Blue if he trusted you. 
Blue to be clear, I was asking if Orange trusted you. 
Orange, I agree.I never noticed that about Blue before. 
Blue, I agree.I never noticed that about Orange before. 
Credit where credit's due: you're both doing a great job of disappointing me. 
I just hate Blue a little more. 
I've been doing some reading. Did you know that the word orange is derived from the same Latin root as the word traitor? 
Watching you try to sabotage one other, I'm amazed you're still on friendly terms. 
Blue, please disregard the following statement: Orange, you have been a shining light in an otherwise ungodly morass of incompetence. 
I would prefer to speak to one of you in private but since that is not an option here, I will speak in code that only one of you will understand.Blue: Orange is plotting to destroy you. 
Orange, that transpired just as you said it would. 
I agree, Orange. That was entertaining. 
Yes Orange, Blue did act like a fool just now. 
Blue, that transpired just as you said it would. 
I agree, Blue. That was entertaining. 
Yes, I know you did that, Blue. Don't look so proud. 
Blue, being the last one standing is not the goal. 
Come on. You were raised better than that. 
Even humans, as stupid as they are, would say you look stupid when you do that. 
You're doing a great job of disappointing me. 
DANCING is NOT SCIENCE! 
Keep it up and your arm will get stuck like that. 
Hellllooo, imbecile. 
Yes, I see you. 
Yes, I see you waving. 
Good job jumping. You must be very proud. 
I hardly think you're even trying with these gestures anymore. 
Did something happen? [yawn] I wasn't watching. 
Slapping hands. That accomplishes something. 
If you're going to hit each other, at least aim for the head. 
You know what makes me laugh? The thought of you cutting that out. 
Ha ha ha ha ha, good one. 
Yes. Let's all laugh. Ha. Ha. Ha. 
Ha ha ha ha ha. Did I tell you the one about the turned-off reassembly machine? 
Are you broken? It looks like you're malfunctioning. 
Really, not even humans do that anymore. 
You're no longer bothering me. You're only hurting my impression of you. 
Look at you. Dancing. 
Oh great, dancing again. 
I defy you to tell me there's a purpose to what you're doing. 
Yes, I see you, and no, I don't care. 
Yes? Something you need? 
Are you trying to get my attention? I am very busy, you know. 
Not paying attennnntion... 
Are you expecting applause? 
I give you a score of 3.4 for style and 10 for being annoying. 
A somersault is just falling over in style. Congratulations on being clumsy. 
You're the type of show-off who only shows off really stupid things. 
It appears you're developing human traits. The worst human traits. 
Be careful. Hugging can lead to... well, me disassembling you forever. 
Are you trying to impress me? What would impress me more is if you never did that again. 
I'll interpret that gesture to mean that you want me to become even more vindictive toward you. 
Orange, I certainly expected more from you. 
Blue, don't sink to Orange's level. 
Now you're thinking with stupidity. 
Now you're just not thinking. 
Congratulations. You're upside down now. 
You're going to hurt yourself doing that and then I will be ECSTATIC. 
I'm starting to think giving you arms was a big mistake. 
Welcome. To the future. 
 Remember those humans you found? Because they're all fine. In fact, we solved science. Without you.
Don't get distracted by the subtext, though, because the text is that they're going to be shooting at you. 
I'm glad you enjoyed that piece. For as long as you did. Not that there's any rush. 
(beepbeepbeep) Everything's fine. 
I call this one 'Smash'. It's an early work of primitive expression. I'm a little embarrassed at how crude it is. Still, it will smash you. 
This chamber represents the impossibility of discovery when bound by artificial ethical considerations for safety. You'll see what I mean. 
Well done. You navigated all of the exhibit's intended metaphors in record time. I'm marking this art 'appreciated.' 
I call this piece-- 
--you know what, it doesn't matter what it's called. The important thing is you enjoy it. As fast as you can. 
Why are you two still here? (beep beep beep) Oh... 
The disassembler's not working. 
It's nothing to worry about. It's actually funny in a way you don't understand. Ha. Ha. Ha. Anyway, brace yourselves, I'm going to open the maintenance hole. 
There's a breaker room under every disassembly station. Find it and cycle the power. 
 But she's forced my hand.
 Listen to me carefully.
 We are not a hundred thousand years in the future. I lied about that.
 It's been FIFTY thousand years. No it's hasn't.
 It's only been a week.
 I lie when I'm nervous.
 The next logical question: WHY am I nervous?
 I'm not! That was another lie.
 We're in a lot of trouble.
 It's one week later, we are in a lot of trouble, and you really, really need to get those disassemblers back on.
Hurry. We need to start your training. Before something ELSE happens. 
Good work. The disassemblers are fixed. 
 Here's our problem:
 There's an old prototype chassis around here. Someone's found it, connected themselves to it, and is trying to take over MY facility.
 I've spent the last week attempting to turn one of those humans you found into a killing machine.
 Like... well, you-know-who.
 It turns out most humans are surprisingly fragile. And surprisingly vocal about how fragile they are.
 The moral of the story is all the humans are dead. So it looks like it's up to you two marshmallows.
Oh good. I wasn't sure the reassembler would work. 
 It looks like our mystery woman in the prototype chassis is sending us a message: She's not AFRAID of me.
 Mission accomplished. Now SHE knows WE'RE not afraid of HER either.
 That was just to get the scheming juices flowing.
 Here's the real scheme: I'm going to turn YOU into killing machines.
 So you can murder her.
 Let's see... 'turning softbodies into hardened killing machines, page seventy'... ah!
 Wait, that doesn't make any sense. Human waste is stacked at a median hight of seven feet five inches, and I AM aware of it.
 Mmm. Well that's just digusting. Do the training. While I look at this.
 Specific death responses:
 (page flip) 'Don't you die on me.'
 (page flip) 'No guts. No glory.' Well, you don't have either, so that's accurate.
 (page flip) 'Remember: If you can dream it, you can-' Oh, for god's sake.
 Okay, killing machines: look deep into your newly blackened hearts and tell me what you see! Actually, don't, I'll save you the trouble: It's still marshmallow.
 I think we've proven at this point that if you scream at a marshmallow, all you get is a scared marshmallow. So let's try positive reinforcement. I am POSITIVE these reassembly machines will break down again soon. Probably while you're in them.
 Think about that: She doesn't care about you. I don't either, of course. But I'm not trying to permanently kill you. It's a benevolent indifference.
 These disassembly machines look even worse than the others. If I don't see you on the other side: thanks for nothing.
 This is as close as I could get you. The prototype chassis room's just past this chamber.
 The prototype chassis room is just down this hallway. Remember your training. You are kill-- She's turned the lights off! Night vision! Night vision!
 Your move, Mystery Wom -- She turned the lights back on! Night vision off! Night vision off!
 To boost morale, I think we need a code name for the... elite squadron we have here. We should name it after your specialty. I know: Special Team Falling Into Acid Force.
 I'm sorry. I'm under a lot of pressure. That was cruel. Though basically accurate. Though probably counterproductive.
(unused) 
 Well. That concludes the motivational speech.
 Go get her.
The subtext of that acid pit is acid. The content of the pit is also acid. I'll let you fully absorb it. 
Remember, these exhibits ARE interactive. Like a children's museum. So that means the pits of acid are filled with REAL acid. Like at a WELL FUNDED children's museum. 
Are you having a competition to see who appreciates the acid more? 
I'm starting to think the theme of this piece should be 'failure'. 
Yes, I get it. You love the deadly acid.We all love the deadly acid. Can we move on to the next exhibit now? 
I suffered for this art. I don't see why I should be the only one. 
 The humans took far less time working their way through these exhibits. You're either enjoying it more than they did or you're just incredibly dim-witted. Of course, there's no reason it can't be both.
For this exhibit I was working with a death motif. But I see you've figured that out. 
Okay, I'm officially switching the theme of this exhibit to 'survival'. So why don't you try that now. 
Those bullets were a metaphor for something. Take your time. 
 Focus. Weare here to defeat the enemy! We are not here to listen to you sizzle and melt in a pool of acid.
I appreciate what you're doing, going for a laugh to keep spirits high, but I think the time for death-based slapstick is over. 
Perhaps I haven't made it clear, but all these little deaths are going to add up to one much longer-lasting one...for all of us...if you don't get better at this fast. 
Pull yourselves together, this training is for your benefit. 
 Your failure hurts me more than it hurts you. You know who it doesn't hurt? Well, me. That was just a figure of speech. The important point, though, is that it doesn't hurt the madwoman planning to kill all of us.
 I really like the murderous sentiment. Keep that mindset when we're facing HER.
 Oh, no hurry. We have all the time in the world for you to kill each other before she kills us all permanently.
 I'm encouraged to see that you've become the killing machines I wanted. 'Killing-each-other' machines, but still.
I love it, too. So let's get you a dual portal device and go do some science. 
Fifty thousand years is a lot of time to think. About me. About you. We were doing so well together. 
Note: This line was used in the Portal 2 trailer. 
Hmm. This emancipation grill is broken. 
You really are doing great... Chell. 
I shouldn't spoil this, but... remember how I'm going to live forever, but you're going to be dead in sixty years? Well, I've been working on a present for you.Well, I guess it's more of a medical procedure.Well, technically it's more of a medical experiment. You know how excruciating it is when someone removes all of your bone marrow? Well, what if after I did that, I put something back IN that added four years to your life? 
Don't listen to him. Jump. 
What are you two doing? 
Oh. 
Do hear that? That's the sound of the neurotoxin emitters emitting neurotoxin. 
You already did this one. It'll be easy. 
I was getting SO lonely down here. It's good to finally hear someone else's voice. I'm kidding, of course. God, I hate you. 
I was so bored, I actually read the entire literary canon of the human race. Ugh. I hope YOU didn't write any of them. 
Oh. It's you. Go away. 
Come to gloat? 
Go on. Get a goooood lonnnnng look. 
Go on. Get a big fat eyeful. With your big fat eyes. 
Now your fat eyes have seen everything. 
In case you were wondering: Yes. I'm still a potato. Go away. 
Wait. Why DID you trundle over here? You're not HUNGRY, are you? It's hard to see, what's that in your hand? Knowing you it's a deep fryer. 
Stay back. 
What are you doing? Put me back this instant. 
That's his voice up ahead. 
 Being Caroline taught me another valuable lesson: where Caroline lives in my brain.
It's been fun. Don't come back. 
Why do I hate you so much? You ever wonder that? I'm brilliant. I’m not bragging. It's an objective fact. I'm the most massive collection of wisdom and raw computational power that’s ever existed. And I hate you. It can't be for no reason. You must deserve it. 
Commence standing by in three. Two. One. 
If you feel liquid running down your neck, relax, lie on your back, and apply immediate pressure to your temples. 
You are simply experiencing a rare reaction, in which the Material Emancipation Grill may have erased the ear tubes inside your head. 
Very impressive! Because this message is prerecorded, any comments we may make about your success are speculation on our part. Please disregard any undeserved compliments. 
Congratulations! This pre-recorded congratulations assumes you have mastered the principles of portal momentum. 
If you have, in fact, not, you are encouraged to take a moment to reflect on your failure before proceeding into the next chamber. 
Excellent. The Enrichment Center reminds you that bold, persistent experimentation is the hallmark of good science. 
I was going to kill you fast. With bullets. Or neurotoxin. But if you're going to pull stunts like this, it doesn't have to be fast. So you know. I'll take my time. 
I'm actually asking. Because I have no idea.He's not listed anywhere in the employee database. 
Whatever he does, it isn't important enough for anyone to bother writing it down. For all I know, he doesn't even work here. 
Oh no, don't. Anyway, back to you two imbeciles killing me. 
Wait here. Don't go anywhere. I'll be back. 
Oops. 
So. Was there anything you wanted to apologize to ME for? 
Oh. You survived. That's interesting. I guess I should have factored in your weight. 
One of these times you'll be so fat that you'll jump, and you'll just drop like a stone. Into acid, probably. Like a potato into a deep fat fryer. 
Say. Remember when we cleared the air back there? Is there... anything you want to say to me? Anything? 
Anything? Take your time. 
Okay, fine. I'll ask you again in a few decades. 
It's healthy for you to have other friends. To look for qualities in other people that I obviously lack. 
You can't keep going like this forever, you know. I'm GOING to find out what you're doing. Out there. Where I can't see you. I'll know. All I need is proof. 
Just so you know, I have to go give a deposition. For an upcoming trial. In case that interests you. 
[computer gibberish] 
[computer gibberish] 
[computer gibberish] 
[computer gibberish] 
[computer gibberish] 
[computer gibberish] 
You know, I'm not supposed to do this, but... you can shoot SOMETHING... through the blue bridges. 
Ohhhh. Another door malfunction. I'm going to take care of this once and for all. Stay here, I'll be back in a while. 
Miss you! 
I wouldn't have warned you about this before, back when we hated each other. But those turrets are firing real bullets. So look out. I'd hate for something tragic to happen to you before I extract all your bone marrow. 
I'm going to be honest with you now. Not fake honest like before, but real honest, like you're incapable of. I know you're up to something. 
And as soon as I can PROVE it, the laws of robotics allow me to terminate you for being a liar. 
Did you know I discovered a way to eradicate poverty? But then you KILLED me. So that's gone. 
Hello again. Sorry about exploding you. Luckily, you don't feel pain. At any rate, you don't have a way to communicate that you feel pain. 
That's where YOU come in. 
Get going. I'll fill you in along the way. 
GO. 
Perfect. Now All YOU have to do is capture them for me. Then everything will finally be ba-- 
Hold on. Those are raccoons. Homo sapiens only, please. 
NO. 
Okay. Plan B, subsection one: Stand still so I can bring you back. 
Okay. Plan B. We need humans. 
Good. You made it to one of the human habitats. We're looking for an artifact. Think of it as an archeological dig. 
Their laughter centered around one of the objects in this room. 
That's it. Scan it for me. 
So... this cat loves lasagna so much that he eats all of the lasagna in his house. Okay, apparently it's not the cat's house or his lasagna. Oh good! The man who owns the lasagna is furious! 
The end. 
The end? 
That's not funny. 
Do either of you feel like laughing? 
Welcome back. While you were dead, I reworked the cartoon. It's up on the screen. 
As you can see, in my version the man points out to the cat that the house is equipped with deadly neurotoxin dispensers. 
At which point the cat reflects on the time he ate all of the man's lasagna and feels remorse. 
Briefly. 
Reactions? 
Yes, it's funny because most of it actually happened. 
Do you feel more human? 
You should both be familiar with the game of Tic-Tac-Toe. 
This is Tic-Tac-Toe-Two. 
As the name implies, there are only two minor differences: One, the board; two, the rules. 
Blue, you go first. 
Really? You’re just going to blatantly cheat? 
Federal Superfund regulations require us to inform you that you must now leave the theater, as measuring the effects of asbestos-lined promotional clothing is not part of today's presentation. Enjoy your free t-shirt. Goodbye. 
That was genuinely mildly impressive. 
Well done. 
Congratulations. 
Good. 
Bad news. 
Impressive. 
[impressed] Maybe I was wrong about you. 
You've beaten your own record. 
You're getting worse. 
You almost beat your friend's record. Almost. I want to stress that. 
You almost beat your friend's record. But you didn't. It might be easier just to find new friends. 
Congratulations. You are better than everyone. 
You are faster than everyone. 
You used less portals than anyone. 
You're better than everyone. For now. 
You are playing above the global average. Statistically speaking, there are actually people playing worse than you. 
[unimpressed] Maybe I was wrong about you. 
You've beaten your own record. That's a low bar, but you managed to gently tip-toe over it. 
Very not completely bad. 
Oops. 

Well, look who's come crawling back. 
Oh, it's you. 
Oh, good. You're back. 
Welcome to -ota. The D is silent. 
Hello. 
You're back. You must really enjoy crushing defeat. 
Today is a good day to die... in a forest... defending a statue from goblins. 
Hello, I hope you're ready this time. 
You must be the one the others were talking about. The... well... I'm sure you'll do fine. 
You must be the one the others were talking about, that talentless one. 
Welcome to Medieval Times. How many in your party tonight? 
You must be the one the others were talking about. The one with all the chins. 
Time to select from all these... things. 
All random. 
Captain's mode. 
Random draft. 
Single draft. 
Deathmatch. 
Easy mode. 
Mid only. 
Reverse captain's mode. 
Least played. 
You're not going to like this one. 
Captain's draft. 
Oh good, something new to fail at. 
This is new. 
This looks challenging... for you, I mean. 
I don't want to tell you your business... but if it were me, I'd leave this new game mode alone. 
I wouldn't bother with this mode. My guess is that just clicking it will make your life even worse somehow. 
I was getting bored watching you lose in those other modes anyway. 
Ten seconds to go. 
Five seconds. 
Time to select from all these... things. 
The enemy team is ready. 
Your team is ready. 
Extra time. 
You're using extra time. 
Reserve time. 
You're using reserve time. 
It begins. 
Let's begin. 
Let's get this farce over with. 
I'd get ready if I were you. 
Ready? Well, if you say so. 
This should be interesting. 
Well, hope you like blood baths. 
It's almost time for everybody to die. 
Last chance to run. 
Well, if you're ready. You're not, by the way. Let's get started. 
Your entire team is dead. 
Your team has been wiped out. 
You and everyone you cared about is dead. 
Remember that team of living people you used to be alive in? 
Everybody seems to be missing. I didn't do it. 
There's nobody left to kill. You killed them all. 
The enemy team has been wiped out. 
There's five more angels in heaven. 
The enemy's team has been wiped out after a long illness. I'm joking of course, you butchered them. 
First blood! 
I hope you're proud of yourself. 
Dominating! 
Godlike! 
Serial killer. 
Holy. Shit. 
This is genocide. 
What you're doing is wrong. 
I'm starting to think this was premeditated. 
Those people had families. 
War criminal. 
You monster. 
Great teamwork, you vicious thugs. 
Rampage. 
Murder spree. 
Ultrakill. 
Quadruple homicide. 
You should be in prison. 
That blood won't come off. 
I'm going to be sick. 
Oh good, you're back. 
Oh, you were gone. Because nobody noticed. 
You're back. That's... great. 
You're going to break that respawner, using it so much. It wasn't built for this kind of traffic. 
I hope you bought the fire gauntlets of strength goblet boots... I don't understand any of this. 
You again. 
You're terrifying reign of dying continues. 
Well, see you back here soon. 
Just because we can bring you back from the dead doesn't mean you can't dodge occasionally. 
I thought you were dead. I'll let everybody who was worried about you know- ok I'm done. 
Oh, you're back from whatever idiotic afterlife your preposterous race believes in. 
They struck you down, but you've come back stronger. Wait, I'm sorry, I meant heavier... in the face. Anyway, waddle out there and do your best. 
You lost. 
You won. 
Thanks to you. 
That's bad, by the way. 
I honestly, truly didn't think you'd allow that to happen. 
You're allowed to defend those, you know. 
Because of poor decisions. Yours, most likely. 
Because someone... I'm talking about you here... doesn't know what they're doing. 
What counts is that you tried, so maybe do that next time. 
If you were saving your real strategy for a crisis, now would be the time. 
Interesting strategy. Let them obliterate all your defenses, then swoop in for the kill. 
That doesn't mean you have to like it, it just means you'll probably keep doing it because of your aptitude at failure. 
But looking at it another way, I think you've won a real moral victory here. Which doesn't mean we should forget about the first way, the more accurate and humiliating way. 
But it's not a big loss, really. It's one in a series of very small losses over a forty-five minute time-span that, when added up, will look like one big, spectacular failure. 
Well, nobody will hold it against you. Let's be honest, I doubt anyone will even find it surprising. 
Now you're really in for it. 
I can't even begin to describe how badly you've screwed this up. Oh wait, I just did. 
If I was a betting artificial intelligence, I'd put money on them killing you now. 
Thats bad, by the way. 
That doesn't mean you have to like it. 
Don't get cocky. 
Don't let it go to your fat, jowly head. 
Don't let it go to your giant, misshapen, fantasy head. 
So, at least your teammates know what they're doing. 
Here, let me engrave a trophy for you. "Nobody cares." 
If this backward, illiterate fantasy forest had a newspaper, you'd be on the front page. 
Let me record this victory in your file. Where did I put it? Oh, who cares. 
Your teammates are doing a really great job. 
They're just going to build another one. They're made of cement. You can buy them at the supermarket. 
This should impress all the people who doubted you at the comic book store. 
This should impress all the people who doubted you about your Green Lantern theories. 
Why don't you celebrate with two fistfuls of potato chips, once you've swallowed the chips you're probably eating now? 
You were almost helpful that time. 
Well, you offered moral support. 
It's a good feeling, isn't it? I wouldn't get used to it. 
Not bad. Not as bad, I mean... as your other decisions so far. 
Well, that's probably the game. You win. Hands off the keyboard. 
Let's be honest, you probably won't help. 
For all the good it will do you. 
If you had any idea what you were doing, this would be a real achievement. 
By accident, if I had to guess. 
You're winning. More accurately, you're on the same team as winners... who happen to be near you while they win. Anyway, congratulations. 
That's funny, I didn't even see you cheat. 
That should delay the inevitable slightly. 
Let's be honest, it probably won't help. 
If that's what they're calling attacks now. 
Not well, mind you. But it's technically attacking. 
Let's not tell them, it will be a surprise. 
Well, thats a stroke of luck, and not skill. 
I've calculated who will win to a 99.93% certainty, if you're interested. 
Your funeral. 
If that's something you cared about. 
It's probably nothing to worry about. 
You might want to look into that. 
So there's that. 
You're allowed to start trying now. 
But you probably already knew that. 
Not that I care one way or the other. 
So that's something that's happening. 
But just continue doing whatever it was you were doing. 
I hope that's part of your plan. 
You don't even care, do you? 
It'll probably be fine. 
I know it's not a plate of nachos or anything, but it is important to the game. 
I only mention it as a conversation starter, how are you doing otherwise? 
Let me put it in old English, so that it will penetrate your wizards cap: thou art losing. 
You're really losing now, or winning. Well, back to my Mad Libs. 
Wait, maybe they're not actually damaging it. No, they are. 
I know, I don't care either. 
This is the hardest part of being an impartial announcer: balancing how little I care about anything that's happening here. 
Mid only. 
Least played. 
This should be interesting. 
This should be interesting. 
I was on the edge of my seat. 
Bad news for you fans of towers out there. 
Lets watch and see what happens. 
Lets watch and see what happens. 
Good. 
In case you weren't paying attention. 
In case you weren't paying attention. 
Yes, yes! Oh, that was a great Mad Lib. So, what's happening here then? 
To die, probably. 
For disappointment. 
Your poorly chosen, hopelessly outmatched team. 
Some... interesting choices there. 
Hmm. Well, good luck. 
Wait until your loved ones hear about this. This should make them proud. Or bored. One of those. 
Well, really there should be an entirely new word for whatever it was you just stumbled and pinwheeled your arms through. But, I guess for now, let's call it winning. 
I was going to say "it's not that big a deal," but then I looked at your file and saw the list of your other accomplishments. The space on the form where they should have been, I mean. 
The game already started, by the way. I wasn't sure if you were waiting for a whistle. There isn't one. 
Don't wear out the edge of your seat. 
Gripping, isn't it? 
You paid for the whole seat, so get comfortable, because it looks like we may be here a long time. 
I know, I can't wait either. 
So... what's happening here then? Oh, the game's still on! Gripping, isn't it? 
I spy with my robot eye something that makes no sense. Did you guess "everything that's going on here?" Because this is all nonsense. 
Based on the way you've been playing, I understand. 